---
title: Never Gonna Give You Up
date: 2012-06-29
imageSource: late
clickThrough: http://500px.com/photo/12280427
---

i’ve sort of decided to not bore you with daily updates about college searching life, because you have either done it, are doing it, or will do it. (hopefully) so there’s no need to extent the pain. that said, i’m still visiting schools up and down the east coast…. ok ny, and boston. (and ithaca). i wrote before about nyc being able to hide stuff under other stuff? yeah. forget all that. i’ve seen boston now. (sings augustana). under “south station”, the main terminal for all commuter trains and busses that connect to the south, there is a pedestrian walkway to who knows where. under this, runs a bus service to the airport. under that still is the red line of the “t” (boston’s version of a subway, more on that later)  with a full station with fare gates etc thats 2 levels. thats a total of 4 levels. but wait there’s more. in the late 90’s, the city started an ambitious project to put the main highway that runs through the city (similar to 101, and 280 in sf) underground. 10 lanes of highway had to find a home under the pipes below the streets, and guess where it passed by - yeah. south station. so under the walkway, the bus system, and 2 floors of subway is a highway. 5 lanes. each direction. just let that marinate a little. :)

now i promised i’d tell you about the strangest subway on the face of the northeast. if you are at all familiar with the system, i took the redline first which is a little bit more of a traditional subway type line, along with its companion blue and orange lines. but after the red, i rode the green line. which is a different story altogether. picture like a muni car with its steps lowered permanently into the street level position. they navigate a twisty mesh of underground street like tunnels with tracks between platforms that when the train is not there, you can walk across to get to the other platform. then they come out onto the comm(onwealth) ave. and run on the surface like normal which is fine. its just this strange mesh of a street level car and a subway that blends strangely in my mind. this could be very common - just strange to me. another part that is kind of unique - the bus service to the airport that i mentioned earlier, is actually considered part of the subway system. they run lengths on underground paved roads with wires overhead. they run pretty fast, and are accessible without exiting the subway fare gates. just another interesting addition. just some tidbits - boston’s subway is actually the oldest in the country - and the same agency runs the commuter trains, the subway, the paratransit, the ferries, the subway, and the busses, which allows for huge potential in the integration of fares and compatibility of tickets and awesome nerdy stuff like that that makes me happy.

i am not nearly in a state of wonder about this system and city like i did with ny, perhaps just because the lines are more well lit, there are fewer of them, and the whole thing is a little bit more….. idk. it has a different feel. its as if it’s not as much of a lifeblood of the city the way the subway in ny is, and maybe that’s it. we’ll see.