---
title: Why Wouldn't You Want to Drown?
date: 2012-08-10

clickThrought:
imageSource: drown
---

everyone says "when in rome, do as romans do". now, we all know that this does not only apply to rome, but most of us know that this is supposed to extend to all other places (when in paris, do as parisians do, when in iceland, become bjork, etc). many many people come to amsterdam to do as amsterdamians do, which of course, is very possible (cough cough, quite literally), but that is certainly not the only reason to come here. people often describe amsterdam as open, liberal, beautiful, clean, dirty, crowded, awesome, (and i agree with all of those words) but the word i will use is "impossible". looking around, it looks quite like a normal city with 8 bajillion canals (100km worth), winding streets, and stupid-narrow houses. etc, until you remember about the water. if you arrive in the "centraal station", you will be surrounded on 2.5 sides by water. not so unusual until you realize that 2-3 km away, out in the former zuider-zee, there is a [dijk] holding back the pressure created by a difference in water level. (note 1: don't every argue with the dutch about how to build a dam/dijk). one of the consequences of this is that all the water in amsterdam is fresh, from the amstel river, which allows algae etc. if you arrive at the schiphol airport, you will learn from your nice cabbie that it is called that because it is 5m below sea level, and it used to be where people would sink their broken ships (schiphol…ship-hole). interestingly enough, this is also the lowest point of the netherlands. if you arrive by driving, well you are in the minority, and if you arrive by bike, you're insane, till the moment you arrive in the city. i think even the trams might have to yield to bikes, if nothing else. even the cars seem to give them the right of way, certainly pedestrians do. all of these people coexist on some of the narrowest streets i have ever seen. amsterdam is built on water, almost like a city of permanent houseboats. there are many, many, many canals. i don't remember the exact number, but they total 100km, and are all man made, except for the amstel river (which i guess, isn't really a canal at all, so the generalization holds). in-between these canals are i guess what you would count as big brothers of city blocks. they're almost man-made neighborhoods, sometimes equaling one city block, but sometimes (often) crisscrossed, sectioned off, and sliced in strange curves by, streets. i guess you could call them streets, they're more like glorified sidewalks, only just wide enough to fit your very tiny dutch car, forget passing. they are roughly the same width as the walkways, and roads that line each canal on both sides, turning each bank of the canal into a sort of road as well. some of the streets are wider, but just as twisty mind you, and they usually sport tram tracks. these trams are some of the skinniest trams i have ever seen. they look like they have been squeezed through a linguini press, and they are articulated every 3 meters or so to give them the turning radius necessary for the ridiculously tight curves they must travel. they wind back and forth over and under the canals, meeting up with each other and parting ways every 3 blocks or so, creating the most convoluted, complicated, rabbit-warreny awesome train network out there. they fight for space with the 750,000 people, 600,000 bikes (some of which are in the same place, i guess) probably 200,000 cars, and however many of the 3.5 million tourists decide to clog up the streets with their mindless yelling and pointing at of maps. (myself included…) but back to the city. each building is no shorter than 3-4 floors. this is because no building is more than 2-3 meters wide. this is because, or so i have been told, that property tax is based on how much of the street your house takes up, not its square-meeterage, or room count, or whether or not it has a roof (egypt, i'm looking at you). this causes houses, and in fact, most buildings, to be narrow, deep, and tall. to save room for living, staircases are sacrificed, almost. i think most countries could call them ladders. they do have stairs, but in order to get your couch up to the top floor, there are hoisting hooks protruding from the roof of each house, to allow the 6-8 tall dutch movers to sling it in through the window. (two guys and a truck, good luck!). all of this, cars, bikes, people, trams, tiny houses, boats, canals, they all vie for space in the tiny underwater city, making for a very dense and very exciting place that seems to be, at the same time to crowded for it's own good, and equally spacious, as you can lose yourself in a network of streets, and come out very far away from where you started. it seems so unlikely to have this many things crammed into such a small area, and still have it be so lovely. i said last post how there probably was a state institutionalized beauty standard, and i stand by that guess. amsterdam is beautiful, as is the rest of what i saw of holland (forthcoming). i left this evening via a 100 year old lock, and am currently getting my last glimse of a windmill as we sail off into the north sea. goodbye netherlands, we will meet again.