---
title: You Are Now Free to Move About the Planet
date: 2012-07-07
imageSource: you-are-now-free-to-move-about-the-planet
clickThrought:
---

at 4:30 am this morning the "sonar" announcing the imminent day began to pulsate through my dreams. sluggishly, and over the next 25 minutes, i pulled myself out of bed, did some last minute packing, and got myself to the car. as we were driving down the highway, (with about 6 other people, if you are familiar with the 101 south you will understand how special this is) i began to contemplate just what was happening to me. i am 1 of 80. over today and yesterday, and what in some parts of the world is tomorrow, 79 other people aged 17-23 are facing similar last minute packing, similar drives and/or trainrides to the airport, and similar sobbing families. we are all on our way to berlin. me? im on a three leg trip through dc and frankfurt. (there's a plane at the gate next to me leaving for portland...how nice ;) ) as we roamed the terminal, trying to find the entrance to the rope-a-dope, i started to feel less and more alone at the same time. i knew that there were at least 79 other people in my situation, but of course, as one does at the airport, i saw many more people all with bags and families, granola bars and cups of coffee that they are desperately trying to down to at least 3 ounces and then shove into their 1 quart ziplock bag, all in the same situation i am. i know just how many cities there are, and almost every one of them has an airport, and at all times, most of those airports are full of someones going somewhere. over 500,000 people are flying at anyone time, much less waiting in airports or waiting for their bags. i started to feel significantly less alone. berlin, im coming. don't wait up, but im coming.