---
title: I Believe in Yesterday
date: 2012-07-31
clickThrought:
imageSource: I-believe-in-yesterday_Snapseed
---

last saturday, after the usual amount of stressful rehearsal, i decided to take a walk/train ride/walk/walk out to the old olympic stadium/park in outer berin. it was built for the 1936 summer olympics, which, if you remember your world history, is a date that would sound eerily familiar if you are talking about germany specifially, (while of course, it affected the entire world). to jog your memory, let me tell you also that a hindsight-is-20/20-nickname for these games was the "nazi olympics". mr adolf saw a 2 week long sporting event as the perfect time to try to convince the world of his idea that there was one race that would reign supreme. though later allowed to rejoin, jewish athletes were originally banned from the games, as well as people of color etc. and it was no subtle matter, this attempted persuasion. the approach to the stadium from the city is a long one, and would have been even longer in '36, but when i emerged from the forest, (under a bridge, past the nice man playing the guitar, "remember, to let him into your heart..." etc.)  and saw the long mall of flag poles framing the 5 steel rings of the olympic flag-shape, i was immediately intimidated. i walked the good .5-1km down the mall towards the stadium, trying to put out of my mind the drunk football fans (that's european, british, and rest-of-the-world football, soccer for you americans out there... ), and could see, upon comparing with the historical photos in my pamphlet, where the swastikas had hung on the pillars supporting the rings (now conveniently hidden by clocks). the sky was covered with high clouds, so the whole place had a steely, dull, grey feel, as the sadium was backlit by the afternoon sun-clouds.  high gates, and scowling guards told me to stay far away from the stadium, but not before checking out the rest of olympic park (except for the pool, they make you pay to go in there, they think you're going to swim, but really you just want to take pictures of the high-dive with instagram). i walked slowly past the tennis and hockey stadium... (?) and back under the bridge ("suddenly, in not half the man i used to be......") and there was a shadow hanging over me. i realized in that moment that we were 3 of 4 weeks into our rehearsal process, the last of which being a whirlwind up until the performances. i thought back to the beginning of the month, which now seemed like forever and a day ago. which is sort of has been. ive come to know berlin and the accompanying history a lot better now, and "yesterday" is perhaps not always something in which we should believe. lots of nice things happened yesterday, but even better ones will happen tomorrow. and in the next days, weeks, and years, to follow.