---
title: 10
date: 2012-09-11
clickThrought:
imageSource: 10
---

10 yeas ago today, someone decided it would be a good idea to tear down 2 buildings. with people inside. 10 years ago today i was in second grade, and while everyone was freaking out, our school kept marching on. 10 years ago today people died on a date that when examined does not seem accidental. 10 years ago today was a major breakthrough in an idiot’s plan for something. 10 years ago today people died. and so did the people who tried to save them. 10 years ago today a reason was given for this country to go to war. again. and 10 years later, we’re not done. someone please tell me how that makes sense. 10 years ago today the radio was clogged with news from all directions. 10 years ago today the morning was normal, and then 6000 people got swallowed by a tower of black. 10 years ago today trust died. 10 years later we remember it, and 10 years later we hope nothing like it will happen again. 10 years later there are two square waterfalls mimicking the falling. they will be falling. forever. 10 years later we remember the ones who are lost. 10 years later we brace for whatever may be coming next. 10 years from now it will be 20 years later. there will be people my age who were not alive when that day occurred. 10 years from now, i hope we can know why on this planet someone would want to do that. 10 years from now i hope beyond all hope that we can understand the humans that live on this rock we call home. 10 years from now, all i ask for is clarity. and why. just. why.