---

layout: post
title: Put a Goat on It or A Guide to Traditional Norwegian Architecture
date: 2012-08-16
image: put-a-goat-on-it
---

norway is cold. sometimes. not as cold as it is at the same latitude north on the west coast of the us (alaska...) thanks to the golf stream, but it still gets a pretty significant amount of snow and freezing weather, especially farther north. to deal with this problem, the early people of norway (vikings) developed an ingenious strategy to keep their houses warm in the winter and cool in the summer. they turned to the most abundant element around. dirt. the typical and traditional norweigen house is made of wood, with four pained windows (of course, not back in the viking age, but now...), a centered door, and sloped roofs, covered with grass. well, covered with dirt, but with dirt comes grass, which needs to be kept tame (goat), especially when it rains 200 days out of the year (bergen...). this was solely for insulation, but it's actually very quaint and beautiful when it is executed well. the houses are small, and short, with only a few rooms, and if it is two floors, the staircase is tight and narrow (not unlike the netherlands). the windows are bordered with wood on 4 sides, and on the 2 vertical sides, the wood extends 15 or so centimeters down with an ornate design that finishes the window nicely; shutters top it all off. the newer norweigen houses are larger, many stories, not unlike those you might find in the us, but somehow just that much more pretty (maybe its just the light), but some actually maintain that grass is the best roofing material (but usually sans-goat). even the more modern buildings, as some are starting to in the states, have grass roofs, mostly to show off that they are attempting to be green etc, because a building of glass and concrete is going to have to have much better insulation than only a grass roof (even if it does sport a goat, which it usually doesn't). in the center of the towns however, the buildings are not usually wood. those are farther out from the town center, because, as you can imagine, when you build along a fjord, there's not much room, and when you pack wooden houses close together, the likelihood and potential danger in a fire situation is just that much higher (learned the hard way in some cases... ålesund...) so those houses are made of stone. sometimes they cheat the government and make then out of wood, and then plaster them to look like stone, but not usually. norway is all about repurposing buildings. there is a hall in bergen that was first the slaughterhouse, then the meat market, then the library and now it's 3 different restaurants, and it still is the original building from something. the people are also very adamant that old buildings not be torn down just to make room for more buildings. this usually is decided hamlet by hamlet, but pretty consistently in favor of the old buildings. which makes me quite happy. norway is pretty, and there should be nothing done to change that. build the new in and around the old is my philosophy, and this, they have done.