---
title: Meanwhile on a Canal
date: 2012-08-06

clickThrought:
imageSource: amsterdam-window
---

ill start back in berlin

i finished the project "what moves you?" with great success. the performances were fantastic, and the crowd very appreciative. i still plan to post about the project as a whole separately. but for now let's focus on my world travels. ;p i was very sad to be done being in berlin on my own, but it was great to finally meet up with my family. they had planned to meet me at the end of my month-long stay, see the performances, and then we would continue on together, but first we had a couple days left in berlin to do basically the complete opposite of what i had been doing for a month. when i was there alone, i had been on the train everywhere, moving very quickly from one underground club to another, trying as many different things as possible and getting to know the city as well as possible. i was having the time of my life exploring a (relatively) newly reunified berlin, amazed at the progress that has been made since the wall fell only 23 short years ago. but when my family arrived... saturday consisted of a "hop-on-hop-off bus during which we stayed on the bus the entire time, getting off only to take the included and somewhat duplicative river cruise. we moved so slowly. now, i don't want to sound ungrateful, i saw more of the city all at once than i ever did on my own, but it's certainly not a very fulfilling way to take in the sights. when you breeze by the hollocaust memorial taking with you only a blurry, picture of the scratched bus window with some gray boxes in the background, you don't get the feeling that the designer intended... (i did make it back to get some proper pictures - i promise those will be up somewhere for viewing when i get home). but when the bus tours and tower viewings were over, it was time to leave. i said a tearful goodbye to some friends i have known for only 4 weeks, some that i have gone to school with for 4 years, and some that i feel like i have spend 4 lifetimes with (12 years). and then on to sxf. the tiny little former east german airport. and sxf-ams it was. short and sweet.



landing in amsterdam is something i have been looking forward to for a long time, specifically, january 10th, when tfios came out. (spoilers... somewhat) when augustus and hazel land in amsterdam, the description is extremely accurate, as the author, john green, spent the time it took to write the amsterdam portion of his book, in the aforementioned city. the car ride to the airport in the book i'm pretty sure went exactly like his did, and it was exactly like mine. we made it to the center of the city, the oldest part, and found our hotel, a remodeled set of old row-houses, or a new building made to look like that, and dropped our bags. then we went to find dinner. we didn't have to go very far. there isn't a single inch (or centimeter) of street that isn't used for something. as property tax in the netherlands is (or at least, used to be) calculated by the length of the street your house occupied (not height, or even depth) all the houses and buildings are very thin, and tall, and long. which makes for a busy sidewalk as restaurant after restaurant goes by as you walk down the tiny little alleys barely wide enough for a small car, perfectly sized for a businessman on a bicycle. (many of those, somehow, very adorable). we did find a spanish/italian cafe that seemed to, for some reason, have "authentic dutch" food that my family wanted. so we ate there. i walked around the canal close to our house after dinner, promptly running into the red light district... and then around the other side, and back to the hotel, a very short walk, but long enough for me to assert the following. amsterdam must have some sort of state instituted beauty minimum. everywhere you look, the city is picturesque down to the little tiny lights that line the bridges at night, people riding home with food on the back of their bikes, all the boats lined up at the boat parking (there might even be meters, how adorable) and people sitting outside the "coffee shop" smoking. it is simply beautiful here. i found myself wondering why it is that the us has no cities that come close to this, but then i thought seriously about some of my favorite places in san francisco, and decided that i appreciate it more here because i don't live here, and that i live in one of the most beautiful places on earth, and don't realize it. that has now changed, and i will appreciate san francisco for ever. we have a day of nothing planned tomorrow, so i'm gathering ideas. currently on the list is the purse and handbag museum, as well as the spoon museum, the hemp museum, and the wooden shoe factory (im sure that 2 of those exist, try to guess) (i'm not going to any of those places) but i will be doing something exciting i'm sure. it's not possible to do something boring in amsterdam, this much i have gathered. i'm here (recently, only) till friday. ill make the best of my short time.
