---

layout: post
title: Altercations and Alterations
date: 2013-02-06
clickThrought:
image: alterations
---


i like to take photos. a lot. (that is, i both like it a lot, and i take a lot of photos.) i have developed a sort of philosophy in response to the ever-resounding, "digital photography is so bad, all the creativity is done after the fact, it's not real like film is, why would you distort the way the world looks blah blah blah" comments. many people think, and somewhat rightly so, that most of the creative process is done in "post" i.e. likely on a computer, after the fact, presumably, some time after the photo was taken. some people believe that photos are and should remain an accurate representation of the events as they took place. this dilemma was actually posed in one of my early sat practice tests, something along the lines of, "does a photograph represent an artists interpretation of the scene witnessed, or a reliable account of what actually happened?" my immediate response, before i shut up and just picked a side, as they make you do, (college board rant over) was "yes! both! no! neither! hold on! what!?" it went against everything i had learned to look for when i was out taking pictures. i always wanted to capture the places and subjects that were the content of the images, the positioning of elements, cropping (to some extent, it's possible for that to be edited later, and has been since the invention of enlargers in the film industry, i'm done being defensive now) the actual content of the image is crucial to get right when you are out in the field. but what it comes down to is this: i believe, very firmly, that if one is taking photographs for any purpose for which the use will not be journalistic, court-evidence etc, that one has full license, free from any legitimate criticism, to edit, manipulate, or change their photos after the fact. this is something that i believe, and do correct me if i'm wrong, with which most people do not agree. my reasoning, and aforementioned pseudo-philosophy is as follows. i strive to make the photo convey how i was perceiving the location, person, or whatever the subject may have been, both visually and emotionally. this leads me to attempt to convey, in no particular order, and many combinations, wonder, fondness, pride, sorrow, wistfulness, sentimentality, pure awe, happiness, i could go on… this usually takes form in my making the photo seem slightly hyper-realistic in some way. the colors are somewhat saturated, maybe in specific areas, perhaps a region is lighter, or the whole photo has a moody effect cast over it. i sometimes am even picturing these effects and edits as i shoot, but i don't have full control over the available light, weather, age of an object, etc, (i am only human after all). i only have to do this after the fact because i do not have the tools to do it on the spot. it is not a "rescue" technique (like so many people accuse instagram of being) to make my mediocre photos look better, i work hard to make them look good as the come out of the camera, but that is very often not what i wanted to take a picture of. what i really want to do is be able to somehow capture what is coming through my eyeballs, how it is being interpreted by my brain, but for now, i have the tools i have, and i will not complain.

a side note on [instagram](http://www.instagram.com)

it's just fun, ok? i use it half ironically, taking pictures of random things that would never normally warrant my time, half socially, taking pictures of people doing funny things and then making the picture look appropriately funny, and half for all the reasons i said above. sometimes i actually think it looks cool - people like making things look old - take jeans for instance, people will pay absurd amounts of money for jeans that look like they've been run over by a tractor 3 or 6 times. at least this doesn't cost any money

