---

layout: post
title: Nach Krumme Lanke
date: 2012-07-16
clickThrought:
image: nach-krumme-lanke
---

i knew that when i got to berlin, i would not feel that i had arrived until i was exploring by public transit. the trains in germany are all "bahn"s, (train, in german) which is very german. (you will see me use german as a way of describing things in germany, and while it may seem obvious, thats just it - german things are so obvious, that you don't realize how much you need that in your country until you see it in germany. for example, at the airport security, all the bins that you put your stuff in are made with all right angles. they fit perfectly together, and their sides are perpendicular to their bottoms. which means they have the capacity to stand on their edges. which means you can slide them down the "wheely thing" back to the beginning of the conveyor, and not stack them up and wheel them on a cart through the metal detector, where people are supposed to go. this saves time, and bins, and walking.)(whew). but my train adventures we not my first adventures. as i should have expected, my flights (all 3) did not go off with out a hitch. we were delayed and hour in dc because of technical difficulties (i usually put "technical" in quotes, but never when referring to planes) which is no big deal, but it caused me to miss my flight to berlin, and therefore my ride to my final destination. after negotiating with the very friendly lufthansa agent, and getting a seat on a flight 2 hours later. the arrival in berlin is an interesting one. we, those who fly in this summer, are the last people who will get to/have to fly in to the small northern txl. if you've never been to txl, it reminds me a bit of san jose, and if you've never been to san jose, i really can't help you. (sorry). as i mentioned, i was two hours later than i expected, my ride had (understandably) left. so i went to find the train. and there i encountered to only non-german thing about my arrival to germany. the train doesn't go to the airport. it't not that the airport is too far away, or that the train doesn't reach, it actually goes around the airport in two different directions. oh well. there's a bus. good, i can do busses. i actually managed to navigate the "bahn"s without hiccup, and arrived at my destination safely. incase you care, the trains in berlin are in 4 systems, some of which interact better than others. lets start with the u-bahn. that's u for "unter" or under, basically subway, that sometimes goes on the surface outside of town, or even is elevated. fine. then theres the s-bahn, which is like the cooler older brother of the u-bahn. it goes faster, and longer between stops, and runs primarily on the surface, except downtown, or when it's elevated. (are you sensing the trend?) then there is the street car (im not actually sure what it's official name is, that loops around downtown. and lastly, there's the deutsche-bahn or db, which are like the legit regional trains that go to the surrounding cities. as for how they flow together, you have to go to either a u-bahn stop, or an s-bahn stop, they are separate, and they run on different track altogether, (same kind, just separate lines) but when both the u and the s go to the same place, it might as well me the same station, they're connected underground and everything. the s-bahn trains are significantly larger, and quieter (maybe that's just because they're outside) and much nicer, but they run fewer places, so it usually ends up being the u-bahn. the db and streetcar are separated from this network totally. they're stations look much more serious, the trains wait there longer, and they have room for suitcases and such, for traveling long distances. the only thing i have agains the bvg system (thats the company that runs this mess) is that the street car and the u-bahn trains are yellow. and we all know how i feel about yellow. if you dont, i hate yellow. yuck.  i have yet to ride the db or the streetcar, and you can see my progress on my mission to ride as much of the system as possible in my remaining 3 weeks on the picture that is featured in this post. one of the many things to their credit though, is that the trains run on time! (very german). the signs tell you exactly when the trains are coming, how many cars they have, and where on the platform they're going to stop. and the predictions aren't accurate because they track the trains like they do in san francisco, they're accurate because the trains run *on time!* just once, i would like to see a u-bahn be late, so i can know for certain that german people are in fact human. ;p the map i drew only includes the u and s-bahn, because that's all i have a ticket for, but that could change. one thing i know, is that i like berlin very much, and that i will miss being here very much when the time comes for me to leave. until then.... nach krumme lanke!