---
layout: post
title: Windmills and Waterways
date: 2012-08-11
clickThrought: http://500px.com/photo/12252759
image: zaans-saans
---

as beautiful as amsterdam is, and as small as the netherlands is (are?), the city is not a complete picture of the country, so i took a trip to 3 of the most popular areas that surround amsterdam. many a windmill was seen, and many a goat was herd (lol) but first, delft. delft, as it was explained to me, is a place, a class of pottery, and a brand name, as well as a place (town). as incorrect as it may sound, you can buy something delft, you and buy delft, and you can visit the lovely town of delft. which we did. first we visited a traditional, and long operating pottery house (not a factory...) where we were told how they make the beautiful blue designs on the pure white creations (interestingly, the paint is grey, thanks chemistry). we then made the short trek to the town center, where i climbed up to the top of the old church, (many hundreds of steps, i didn't count..... sorry) but was able to get a fantastic birds eye view of the tiny (well, not tiny enough not to have an ikea) little town. delft is nothing short of adorable. our driver had to drop us off outside the center of town because the streets are too narrow to drive, which is fine by me. it is like amsterdam repeated in miniature. smaller canals, smaller pathways pretending to be streets (even the roads we were allowed to drive on had me mumbling, "this is not a road, this is not a road"), tinyer shops and (if possible) steeper stairs (especially in the church). all the roofs are red. )this was possible to notice from the top of the church tower, for as they were in amsterdam, all the buildings are at least 2 stories), all the doors are extremely narrow, and low (funny, for a country full of tall people), and all the shops so adorable it was hard to take. after a quick lunch, it was time to move on to harlem. if this name sounds familiar, (ahem, nyc, ahem), you, sir, are not mistaken. amsterdam, and the area outside, are "old york" or "original york" as it were. before it was new york, it was new amsterdam, settled by the dutch, and named as such. then england took over, as they tended to, and changed it to something closer to home, but some of the other names lingered. harlem included. so on to harlem. it's slightly bigger, more cannaly than delft, still cute, but slightly taller. they have a church too, with a beautiful organ (being played not so beautifully during my visit, but oh well) that was apparently played at one point my mozart. and then it was time to move on to the windmills."zaanse schans" was an old strip of land where they had built, and were still operating, windmills designed, and operating in the old fashion. the one i went into was a saw mill, where they had turned the rotational motion of the wind part of the mill into linear motion in about 78 different directions. there were the blades of the saws (four of them) and the chains and tracks across the floor that drag the logs through the saw blades and a very consistent 2mm/sec. and the winches, and the pulleys, all driven by the same motion of the sails of the windmill. this set me into a very deep, albeit short, thought-tangent about how all of human striving is basically oriented towards making something turn. (coal power: burn coal, boil water, turn a turbine; hydro electric power: ruin a waterfall, turn a turbine; the wheel; etc.) then back to reality, as it was time to go. i saw a giant wooden shoe on the way out, and elected not to take a picture of it, my tourist quotient was up for the day. conclusion: the land around amsterdam is beautiful. upon further consultation of a map, i discovered that holland takes up about the same amount of land as the state of indiana, and that i had actually managed to cover a sizable chunk of it in that days travels. it is almost as picturesque as the pictures make it look, you have to go past power plants and highway interchanges etc before you can get to any of these wonderful places, but how else would you get there? all of this traveling will only go to support my long term decision of living in amsterdam/surrounding area for at least 2-3 years of my life (commence dutch lessons), as it is a wonderful, yet (as previously explored) unlikely place.