---

layout: post
title: Fly Me to the Moon, or Yet Another Attempt to Explain Cruising
date: 2012-08-16
image: norway-fjord
---

i would have gone to amsterdam anyway, and i will be back, but this summer, it was serving as a jumping off point for a cruise to norway. (more on the cruise half of that later. i was very excited to go to norway, looking back, i had no specific reason to be excited for norway, but it's north, (i have this strange fascination with the extremities of the light and dark at latitudes above 60º north or south), there are fjords (insert hitchhikers guide to the galaxy reference here...slartibartfast...), and it's a part of the world i have not been to yet (scandinavia!). so norway it was. as it usually does, the cruise started out with a day at sea, in which you can get to know your new home for the next few days as it travels north at the blazing fast speed of about 20 miles an hour. you can wander up and down the 1000 foot long ship, its 12 passenger decks. (3 crew decks not included).
they are named slightly pretentiously (lower, normal, and upper promenade, rotterdam, navigation, etc.) and try ot memorize the rabbit warren of absurdly decorated and proportionally named rooms (the queen's lounge, the rembrandt dining room (remember, we are on a dutch cruise line), the crows next, silk den, etc) all with leather seats and "gold" leaf everywhere - very decadent. you're made to feel like you are on a very luxurious ship, which of course, you are. you are addressed as sir, or madam accordingly, you have your chair pulled out for you at your white tablecloth breakfast. (sometimes i just want pancakes ok?). which brings me to dining. the food service on a cruise ship incredible. that doesn't mean that the food is delicious, but the fact that they are essentially making 6000 meals everyday, and making it seam like each one was prepared specifically for the person who ordered it. the kitchen on this ship takes up half of the 2nd and 3rd decks. at the aft of each of those decks is one floor of the gigantic rembrandt dining room, and midship on deck 3 is the grill restaurant (for which you pay extra). in between these two places stretches the massive kitchen. it is divided into areas, one for pastries (they make all their own bread on board), one for soup, salad, one for entrees, one for drinks etc. there are roughly a hundred chefs working to continually create the dishes available on the menus of their respective restaurants, and a small army of dining rooms stewards and assistants working to shuttle this food out to the mouths of hungry vacationers. these same meals are available up on the lido buffet, and all of this happens out of sight of 2000 people milling around hungry. it's a bit like disneyland now that i think about it there are probably 3 ways to get from any point a to any point b, 2 of which are not accessible or visible to the passengers. often you will see a guy with a mop and bucket disappear into the wall, only to re-emerge in front of you on the other side of the ship, already almost done mopping the new area. after a dinner in which the other table is bound to be having a more interesting conversation than you are having with the people you have just met today, and even then only because you have been seated together, you retire to bed. the next day is the first port. ålesund. to pronounce this, say the name "olsen" with a quick "uh" after the "l". it s a smallish town stretched out along the side of a very long fjord - several hundred kilometers long i think. as i wander the streets, remembering that this is the place that burned to the ground about 100 years ago. no viking houses here sadly. a bus tour later, we have found out for the first time this trip a: how a fjord is created (river valley + glacier, and the rest is geology) and b: what the traditional foods of norway are (cod, and waffles). the bus (having shown us what must have been the backsides of all the buildings in the town, less than picturesque) drops us off at the far end of town, and we hop on a smaller boat that will take us on a tour of the nearby waterways. it does, in fact, giving us a much nicer picture of the surrounding landscape (the real reason we are in ålesund). next stop is geirangerfjord and the town of geiranger. (you can guess at that one hint: not "gay ranger" - this is not brokeback mountain). this town is 1/10 the size of our boat in population, which is a bit unsettling, but quickly overlooked. i was taken up the side of the fjord to a beautiful overlook onto the water, mountains, and town below. this was a much smaller town than ålesund, and set much deeper back and down at the end of its fjord, making the scenery very dramatic. the cliffs rose 300-400 meters straight out of the water, and, so i'm told, make the same drop down below the water before joining together to form the bottom of the fjord. after viewing, i went further up the mountains, out above the fog, and was able to see the entire valley. i could see the fjord in it's entirety, extending all the way out of sight, surrounded by rounded mountains topped with glaciers. i was driven up to the top of one of these mountains to take in the panoramic view of the mountains of norway. back down the mountain and onto the ship once more, it was time scenic cruising out of the fjord, past ålesund, and back into the north sea. the night brought showtime. a wonderful past time developed for the entertainment of the masses, under the assumption that the masses have a: no taste in music, and b: are fooled when a band is doing the instrumental equivalent of lip-syncing. terrible arrangements of terrible songs were performed to terribly perky and overly energetic dance routines. (imagine all the perkyness of every broadway feel-good song you have ever heard squished into a 45 minute plot-less performance. some people enjoy it - on occasion, it can be ok.) another not all the way dark night brought me to tuesday, and bergen. bergen is the 2nd largest city in norway, after oslo, btu you would never know it. bergen comes from the word meaning "the meadow between the mountains (hills)" 7 to be specific, and since they are quite steep mountains (hills) (requiring the only funicular railway in scandinavia) there are no houses built on the mountains (hills), so the city sprawls out into the country side for some ways making it appear much smaller than it actually is. it is an old port, with a salt factory and many small little "hamlets" of old norweigen style white houses. but the best part about bergen for me, was that it is the site of the house of grieg. grieg was a norweigen composer; some of his more famous works include the piano concerto in a minor, and "in the hall of the mountain king (troll - more on that in a bit). i love that piece very much, and was very eager to see the place where it was written, and hear some more of grieg's music. i did both of those things, and i have to say, his house is beautiful, and his music makes even more sense now that i have seen his surroundings. he drew his inspiration from the surrounding countryside and scenery (you can visit the hut that he build in which to do his composing - it looks right out across the fjord at what im sure in his time was uncultivated land). i said i'd say a bit about trolls. no matter what the rage faces may tell you, trolls are no joke. the people of norway swear by them, even if it is a bit tounge-in-cheek, but over the week, i have heard many different interpretations of what they look like, in what circumstances they can be seen, and what they are capable of. (with random outlying anomalistic descriptions not included, this is what i have come to understand a troll to be.) they are creatures, ranging anywhere from a few centimeters to several hundred meters tall, depending on who you ask, sometimes ugly, sometimes fairly human looking (with a tail) also depending on who you ask, but the two things that seem to be consistent are a: they can only be seen in the dark (they either die, freeze, or turn temporarily into something else in the sunlight), and b: they want your crap. mostly shiny, but not always (they are usually responsible for missing keys, eyeglasses, money etc.) they are actually responsible for anything that goes not quite according to plan, or if something is unpleasant. had a dinner party and ran out of food? troll did it. walking down the street (or standing in a classroom) and your skirt falls off? troll did it. rock on the road? troll. no pg-tips left in the box? well, that was probably some [hawaiian tea theif](http://moreoftenthelatter.tumblr.com), but lets blame a troll anyway. back to their appearance. they have long hooked noses, long ratty dark hair, pimples, a tail (as previously mentioned) bad teeth, and claws. they are generally a nuisance, and are definitely a legitimate excuse in norway. they blame the shapes of mountains on them for crying out loud. anyway, bergen. grieg. in the hall of the mountain king.
the visit to the house of the 1.5 meter tall man has been a highlight of the trip for sure, but it's not over yet. today was eidfjord - the last stop for our cruise before we go back to amsterdam. eidfjord is a very small town at the end of a fjord (sensing a theme here?) they told us flat out that the number of people in eidfjord quadruples when a cruse ship comes in (they only let 1 in at a time, thank goodness). there was sea kayaking and a trip called "waterfalls and waffles" which is exactly what it sounded like. to get to the waterfall, and just as importantly, the waffle house, we had to drive out of the fjord, and up onto the 800m-above-sea-level plateau. this journey brings me to note number (i think i'm up to) 4. if you don't argue with the dutch about building dams (you don't), then you don't argue with the norweigens about building tunnels. to get from eidfjord to the top of the waterfall, i traveled through no fewer than 8 tunnels. when you find a tunnel in the us, its usually either to [bury a highway under a city](http://scriptogr.am/trevorsargent/post/never-gonna-give-you-up), to let a road go through a mountain, etc. they are usually pretty straight, maybe slightly bent, and pretty flat, maybe a dip down and back up again if you have to go under something else, but these tunnels were much more intense than that. these were probably 2-3 kilometer long tunnels, that twisted and turned climbed up and down, sometimes corkscrewing up 360 degrees, all underground. it was quite the ride, but they got us where we needed to go. it was an awesome trip - the waterfall was pretty cool, and the plateau was indeed beautiful - but it confirmed for me (through the narration by our 70 year old guide) however, that there is no such thing as organic fruit farming in norway, and also, there are no animals here. at least, i didn't see any. well, a horse, and, well, [a goat on a roof](http://scriptogr.am/trevorsargent/post/put-a-goat-on-it-or-a-guide-to-traditional-norwegian-architecture),  but the waffles were good. i had 2. there was more scenic cruising out of the fjord today as well. we surprised a bunch of cars coming out of the tunnel by the waterfall that our huge 2000 person ship was approaching. the real obnoxiosity of the evening, though, was the aptly named "dessert extravaganza". this is where all the desert chefs, pastry chefs, ice sculptors, cotton candy makers, flaming coffee brewers get to strut their stuff and shove more sugar and butter into the waiting hands of overweight cruisers. actually, its quite a horrifying sight. but the cotton candy was good. also the carmel apples. i had 2. then, after a screening of "salmon fishing in the yemen, it was time for bed. it is the night before the last day on this ship, and i'm actually quite ready to be home. i have been gone now for 7 weeks, without a real place to call my own. it is too long to be away from a stable group of people, without a consistent community from which to draw strength. i will be very happy to be back in beautiful amsterdam for one more night, and then flying home, hopefully uninterrupted by saturday evening. until then.......