---

layout: post
title: Fall? What's That? An Open Letter to Portland, OR
date: 2012-10-30 
clickThrought: http://500px.com/photo/15040221
image: fall
---


warning: the content herein may prove me a laughable human being. please refrain from laughing.

it's fall in portland. and a beautiful fall at that. how do we tell? astronomically, september 22nd was almost a month ago; biologically, (biology-wise, not like, related to our bodies) the leaves are losing their chlorophyl, and turning an awesome color; meteorologically, there is a noticeable bite in the air, also there are feet of rain dumping from the sky; and academically, a - we're in school and b - midterms!

now, this may come as a shock to some of my readers (no) but this is the first change-to-fall that i have experienced. "what?" you may say, "how is that possible!? you're older than 1 year?! what?! *bangs head against wall in confusion*, but let me assure you, this all will make sense, riiiiight about now. i have lived in san francisco for my entire life up until this fall (yes mom, i know i still live in san francisco... home is where the heart is and all that), and you may or may not know, that san francisco does not have 4 seasons like the rest of humanity, we have 3: "sunny(ish)", "wet",  and "foggy". they sometimes happen individually, "sunny" gets about 50 days out of the year, never all at the same time (but concentrated directly after all the angry tourists go home),  "wet" and "foggy" share the rest (sometimes they share a day). i have visited real fall before (chicago in october) i have visited real winter before (paris/denver in february/december respectively) i have visited real summer before (berlin in july) but i have never stayed somewhere other than san francisco long enough to experience the change from one to another, and for that reason, my time here in p-town has been that much more special. the most striking thing about the change-to-fall is how quickly it goes. one week, you're driving down terwilliger blvd and the trees are a nice luscious green and the sun is shining, and then exactly one week later, on the stroke of october 1, the wind is blowing the bus off terwilliger blvd, and the trees are a dripping orange/brown spectacle. one week later, the leaves are bright red and that much more beautiful. only a few days beyond that, and we havn't seen the sun in over a week. i was expecting this. but i thought the change would be a little bit more gradual. regardless of how we got here, this season is about to overtake winter in it's place as "trevor's favorite season" (yeah yeah i know, "how would you know what winter is like ... san francisco ...yada yada yada" i've visited winter.....) just because of it's pure beauty, especially here, in this wonderful place i get to call "home" for the next 4 years

thanks portland.

love, trevor